#summary Download page
=Baical v0.5.2=
[http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.6.5.zip Download] latest version.
Changes list:
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Saving & restoring scale
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Saving & restoring maximized window state
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. 3 new types of graphs: curve, curve + range, cyclogram
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. Adding additional columns (file, function, line)
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. Ability to show/hide trace description
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. Alt+O emulate pressing Ok on match expr. window
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. "Go to index" menu option
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. New match expr. variables: File, Func, Line
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. Filtering for Off-line strams
 * Added: P7.Trace viewer. Quick text search dialog in addition to match expr.
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Counter min/max management, user can change it.
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. FPS management, user can change max FPS value
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Display current FPS value and drawing time per frame
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Show rule to measure points distance
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Counters grouping (tree)
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. User can sort counters by any column
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Save & Restore window parameters, column width, sort option, etc
 * Added: P7.Telemetry viewer. Disable/enable, Show/Hide counters by groups

 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. Renderer initialization problem
 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. Display enumeration error for full screen window
 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. Reworked points calculation: min, max, average values are calculated at the same time
 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. Rework saving and restoring counters parameters, saving by names

 * Fixed: P7.Trace viewer. Change short cuts for columns
 * Fixed: P7.Trace viewer. Optimize filtering and searching by predicate (> 3x faster) if predicate doesn't contains searching by text

 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. D2D resource leak was fixed
 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. Points allocation speed up
 * Fixed: P7.Telemetry viewer. Antialiasing was switched off to gain D2D drawing performance
 * Fixed: P7. Extra packet management, ability to serialize multiple extra packets
 * Fixed: P7.Trace viewer. Show empty items in trace table after filtering
You may have to install in addition [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5555 Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable]
=P7 Library v1.7.3=
[http://code.google.com/p/baical/source/checkout Checkout] latest source code:
Changes list:
 * Fixed: update example 
 * Fixed: check new telemetry counter name for uniqueness before creation
 * Fixed: GCC "new line" warning
 * Fixed: close channel properly if no counters were registered
=Angara v0.9.8=
[http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.9.8.zip Download]  latest version.
Changes list:
 * Added: Send internal logs to Baical server
 * Fixed: TMF parsing error

-------------------
=Old versions=
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.5.2.zip Baical v5.2]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.5.zip Baical v0.5] 
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.4.zip Baical v0.4]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.3.4.zip Baical v0.3.4]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.3.2.zip Baical v0.3.2]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.3.0.zip Baical v0.3.0]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.2.3.zip Baical v0.2.3]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Baical_v0.2.1.zip Baical v0.2.1]
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.9.7.zip Angara v0.9.7] 
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.9.5.zip Angara v0.9.5] 
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.9.2.zip Angara v0.9.2] 
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.9.1.zip Angara v0.9.1] 
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.9.0.zip Angara v0.9.0] 
 * [http://baical.googlecode.com/files/Angara_v0.8.5.zip Angara v0.8.5] 